---
layout: post
title: "Welcoming Mutiny Wallet as the 1st Sovereign Engineering North Star"
description: "Mutiny joins us to explore the open ocean that is the value-enabled Web."
image: assets/images/north-star.jpg
---

Everyone knows that on the high seas—if you don't have a north star to
follow—you will have a mutiny on your hands in no time. But mutinies aren't
always bad. This one, [Mutiny Wallet](https://www.mutinywallet.com/), is an
excellent one, and we're pleased to announce them as the "North Star" team of
the first Sovereign Engineering Cohort, SEC-01.

As mentioned on our website, we do have a rough idea of where we are going, but
it's only that: a rough idea. The reason is that the waters we are interested in
are not fully mapped out yet. This is why we want to invite one "North Star" to
each cohort, whether it be an individual or team, who has a proven track record
of masterfully navigating these uncharted waters.

The "North Star" will represent the guiding light of each cohort: something to
look up to and aspire to; something that shows the way and helps us as we are
trying to navigate the open waters.

One such team is [the team around Mutiny
Wallet](https://www.mutinywallet.com/#contact). They know the importance of
Bitcoin; they deeply understand the inner workings of lightning; they grasp the
power of nostr; and to top it all off, they have the necessary expertise to
build upon these protocols and the necessary grit to ship a great product.

![](/assets/images/mutiny-team.jpg)

We are beyond excited to have them in Madeira for the whole eight weeks of the
[first cohort](https://sovereignengineering.io/madeira.html) so that we and the
participants can learn from them and with them, explore the uncharted seas as a
crew, and look up to them as a guiding north star in case we get lost.

If you love Bitcoin, lightning, and nostr and want to spend eight weeks with the
best and brightest—building, hacking, and ideating on how to ship a future that
we and our kids deserve—don't hesitate to sign up for SEC-01. We have a
fantastic group of participants coming to Madeira, and you could be one of them.
Only a few spots are left out of the twenty-one, so [sign up
today](https://sovereignengineering.typeform.com/SEC01)!
