---
layout: post
title: "SEC-01: A Pirate Ship Full of Guinea Pigs"
description: "A short review of the 1st Sovereign Engineering Cohort"
image: assets/images/banner.jpg
---

Oh my, what a ride. Where do I even begin? A wise man once said that the best
place to begin is at the beginning. So I'll try to do just that.

## SEC-01: The Beginning

I don't even know how it all started anymore, but I know for a fact that it was
Martijn's idea. And the idea was this: let's do something like a Bitcoin Academy
on Madeira!

"Neat," I thought. "Let's do it," André said. "Let's fuck shit up and do a nostr
thing instead," Pablo remarked. "But it must have a pirate theme," was my only
objection. "Deal."

"Deal."

## SEC-01: What's the Big Deal?

I don't think we did anything special. What we're trying to do, and what I think
we managed to do, is to get the right people together at the right time. We knew
from the get-go that we didn't know what we were doing. And we decided that
that's okay.

We decided that that's okay because any explorative adventure is by definition
unknown. And that's what the [Sovereign Engineering Cohort](/#sec) was and still
is: an explorative adventure.

So I guess the big deal was that we were knowingly venturing into the unknown.
And 21 people signed up for it. Willingly.

That's a big deal.

## SEC-01: The Crew

Every pirate ship needs a crew. We [started as four](/#crew): Martijn, André,
Pablo, and myself.  We invited three more: Paul, Ben, and Tony—our [North Star
team](/2023/10/18/welcoming-mutiny-wallet-as-the-1st-sovereign-engineering-north-star.html)
for SEC-01. And then we invited [21 more](/2023/11/30/meet-the-1st-cohort.html)
to board the ship.

Our 21 participants were people with vastly different backgrounds, from vastly
different countries, having vastly different ideas about how Bitcoin, Lightning,
and nostr could transform the internet, and the world at large. One thing that
everyone had in common was a deep-seated dissatisfaction with the status quo.
Everyone knew and still knows that large parts of the internet are broken. And
everyone felt that there's something we can do about it to fix it.

We talked a lot about what it means to build it right. Or at least what it means
to build it wrong.

One goal we had in mind was to learn from each other so that we may not repeat
all the mistakes that we made in the past. And I think it started working
immediately.

## SEC-01: The First Week

We started the program with a brief introduction about what we had in mind for
the eight weeks, as well as an introduction of [the
crew](/#crew), [the
participants](/#participants), and what everyone
was working on.

One thing that we try to focus on is what I will call the loop. The loop is what
I consider the Cornerstone of the Sovereign Engineering Cohort, as it neatly
summarizes the main idea of the program.

![](/assets/images/sec-loop.jpg)

The idea is simple: you talk about what you're going to build, you build it, and
you show it to everyone. Rinse and repeat. Every week. For two months.

## SEC-01: Distributed Cognition

I am convinced that the problems that we are facing cannot be solved by
traditional means. More importantly, they cannot be solved by a lone wolf.
"[Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are
shallow.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus%27s_Law)"

So the question becomes: how do we get enough eyeballs looking at the right
thing? And more than that: how do we get them to look at problems from the right
angle, inhabiting the right perspective?

## SEC-01: Walking the Walk

Looking at things it's necessary but not sufficient. If you want to solve deep
problems you have to think about them deeply. So again, the question becomes:
how do we create an environment that facilitates and allows for deep
conversations?

I think the Ancients were onto something when they came together at the
gymnasium to discuss deep problems, have deep conversations, and—pardon the
pun—hash things out. It strikes me as odd that all the paintings of these times
show people not only talking but walking.

![](/assets/images/school-of-athens.jpg)

A lot of people who figured out solutions to hard problems in the past enjoyed
an occasional stroll through the park. Not alone, but with company. There's
something about walking and talking that really gets the brain juices flowing.
From [Aristotle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peripatetic_school) to
[Einstein](/assets/images/einstein.png), the greats all intuitively figured out
that walking facilitates proper talking, and proper talking facilitates proper
thinking. Someone from the cohort remarked, "Left foot right foot; left brain
right brain." [I believe it.](/assets/images/left-foot-right-foot.jpg)

So that's what we did. Not only did we talk the talk, but we also walked the
walk. Once a week. Granted, not all of our walks were perfect or magical, but
many of them were. And a lot of stuff got figured out. And once you've got stuff
figured out, it's almost trivial to build it. Figuring it out is the hard part.

## SEC-01: What Came out of It

Some of you might have been fortunate enough to experience the final Demo Day of
SEC-01, held on the last day of [Bitcoin Atlantis][BA]. It took us three hours to show
what came out of it, failing demos and all. There's so much stuff that I had to
put the list in a separate post, aptly titled:

- "[**SEC-01: What Came out of It**](/2024/03/19/what-came-out-of-SEC-01.html)"

Vibes were high, the room was packed, and while most of the
presentations kinda sucked, everyone tried their best to paint a picture of what
they have been working on or what problems they cared about most.

And that's what we cared about most: Getting the people together that care, and
providing an environment where they are encouraged to collaborate and discuss
freely.

We strongly believe that the pie is big enough for us all. Now it's not the time
to think about competition. Now is the time to focus on collaboration. We
believe that Bitcoin is a move from zero-sum to positive-sum thinking. We
believe that we should aim at win-win-win: good for you, good for me, good for
us and the environment we’re embedded in.

## SEC-02: What's Ahead

The space that has opened up by Bitcoin, nostr, and other freedom tech is vast.
We have barely scratched the surface.

The goal of the Sovereign Engineering Cohorts is to scratch the surface as
properly as we know how. So we're going to do it again. In May. Same recipe,
same crew, different participants. **The focus will be on P2P markets and
exchange.**

We're not here to make any promises. I want to repeat once more what we've
[mentioned in the
past](/2023/10/23/applications-to-SEC-01-closing-soon.html):
*"Men wanted for hazardous journey. ~~Low~~ No wages, bitter cold, long hours of
complete darkness. Safe return doubtful. Honour and recognition in event of
success."*

But it's going to be fun. Maybe.

Sign up, and let's find out:
[https://sovereignengineering.typeform.com/SEC02][TF]

[TF]: https://sovereignengineering.typeform.com/SEC02
[BA]: https://bitcoinatlantis.com/
